More taylored instructions for iBridges (#45)
UtrechtUniversity/vre-docs: docs/manuals/ibridges.qmd

title: Using iBridges on SURF Research Cloud
---

The instructions below describe the how to setup iBridges to transfer data between SURF Research Cloud and Yoda or any other iRODS instance. iBridges consists of three parts:
- a python package 
- a command line interface (CLI)
- a graphical user interface (GUI)

With all three parts you can safely transfer your data between Yoda and your workspace.

It is developed and supported by the Utrecht University Research Engineering team. Like the [iCommands suite](icommands.qmd), it is suitable for transferring large amounts of data, but it is easier to use.

The python package and the command line interface are available or can be made available on all workspaces while the graphical user interface will only work on desktop workspaces, i.e. workspaces where you will have a Windows or linux Desktop. 

### Prerequisites

> You will need access to a Yoda or other iRODS instance which hosts your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access to Yoda or another iRODS instance which hosts your data.
```

> iBridges is already installed on many SURF ResearchCloud workspaces developed by Utrecht University. You can check if it is present by simply typing the following command on your terminal: `ibridges`. If iBridges is installed, this should show you the program's help menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
iBridges needs to be installed on your workspace. Many SURF ResearchCloud workspaces developed by Utrecht University (such as Python and R workbenches) have iBridges preinstalled. 

- If you are working on a Desktop workspace, you can check by logging in to your workspace, clicking 'applications' in the top left corner, and clicking 'Development'. 
- On non-desktop workspaces check if iBridges is installed by typing: `ibridges` in the terminal. If iBridges is installed, this should show you the program's help menu. On Jupyter or Rstudio workspaces, you need to open a terminal first: In Jupyter, click the + button in the file browser and select the terminal in the new Launcher tab ([find a short video here](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user/terminal.html)).
In Rstudio, In the bottom left panel, click the ‘terminal’ tab.
```

> - If you need to install iBridges, you can execute: `pip install ibridges`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Installation
- If you need to install iBridges, you can execute: `pip install ibridges` on the terminal.
```

> - On desktop workspaces you can execute: `pip install ibridgesgui`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On desktop workspaces, open a terminal first by clicking applications in the top left corner and then click terminal. A terminal window will open. Here you can type and execute: `pip install ibridgesgui`.
```

> ### Creating an iRODS environment file

Reviewer: I suggest having separate pages for instructions for the gui and for python/CLI. Should we create two separate manuals? Or have one with the sections above here, and then have two links here to ibridges GUI and ibridges CLI/python?
